website/src/content/getting-started.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting Started
description: Set up Argus to review your pull requests in under five minutes.
order: 1
---

## Prerequisites

- A GitHub repository
- An API key from one of the supported LLM providers (Anthropic, OpenAI, or Google)

## Step 1: Add the Review Workflow

Create `.github/workflows/argus-review.yml` in your repository:

```yaml
name: Argus PR Review
on:
  pull_request:
    types: [opened, synchronize]

permissions:
  contents: read
  pull-requests: write

jobs:
  review:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: sudzxd/argus@v0
        with:
          model: anthropic:claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929
          anthropic_api_key: ${{ secrets.ANTHROPIC_API_KEY }}
```

## Step 2: Add Your API Key

Go to **Settings > Secrets and variables > Actions** in your repository and add your LLM provider's API key:

- `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` for Claude models
- `OPENAI_API_KEY` for GPT models
- `GOOGLE_API_KEY` for Gemini models

## Step 3: Bootstrap the Index (Optional)

For the best review quality, bootstrap the codebase index before your first review. Add this workflow or run it manually:

```yaml
name: Argus Index
on:
  push:
    branches: [main]
  workflow_dispatch:
    inputs:
      mode:
        description: "bootstrap or index"
        default: "bootstrap"

jobs:
  index:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    permissions:
      contents: write
    steps:
      - uses: sudzxd/argus@v0
        with:
          mode: ${{ github.event.inputs.mode || 'index' }}
          model: anthropic:claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929
          anthropic_api_key: ${{ secrets.ANTHROPIC_API_KEY }}
          analyze_patterns: "true"
```

Trigger it manually once with `mode: bootstrap` to build the full codebase map and pattern memory. After that, incremental indexing runs automatically on every push to main, with `analyze_patterns` enabled to keep pattern memory up to date.

## Step 4: Open a Pull Request

That's it. Open a PR and Argus will post inline review comments within a few minutes.

## Next Steps

- [Configuration](/argus/docs/configuration) — customize review behavior, thresholds, and ignored paths
- [Architecture](/argus/docs/architecture) — understand how Argus works under the hood

Commit message:

docs: update architecture, website for TOML config
Update architecture.md references from INPUT_* env vars to TOML
config keys. Update website getting-started, configuration, and
QuickSetup component to reflect new config approach.

website/src/content/getting-started.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting Started
description: Set up Argus to review your pull requests in under five minutes.
order: 1
---

## Prerequisites

- A GitHub repository
- An API key from one of the supported LLM providers (Anthropic, OpenAI, or Google)

## Step 1: Configure Argus

Add a `[tool.argus]` section to your `pyproject.toml` (or create one if you don't have a `pyproject.toml`):

```toml
[tool.argus]
model = "anthropic:claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929"
```

See [Configuration](/argus/docs/configuration) for all available options.

## Step 2: Add the Review Workflow

Create `.github/workflows/argus-review.yml` in your repository:

```yaml
name: Argus PR Review
on:
  pull_request:
    types: [opened, synchronize]

permissions:
  contents: read
  pull-requests: write

jobs:
  review:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: sudzxd/argus@v0
        with:
          anthropic_api_key: ${{ secrets.ANTHROPIC_API_KEY }}
```

## Step 3: Add Your API Key

Go to **Settings > Secrets and variables > Actions** in your repository and add your LLM provider's API key:

- `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` for Claude models
- `OPENAI_API_KEY` for GPT models
- `GOOGLE_API_KEY` for Gemini models

## Step 4: Bootstrap the Index (Optional)

For the best review quality, bootstrap the codebase index before your first review. Add this workflow or run it manually:

```yaml
name: Argus Index
on:
  push:
    branches: [main]
  workflow_dispatch:
    inputs:
      mode:
        description: "bootstrap or index"
        default: "bootstrap"

jobs:
  index:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    permissions:
      contents: write
    steps:
      - uses: sudzxd/argus@v0
        with:
          mode: ${{ github.event.inputs.mode || 'index' }}
          anthropic_api_key: ${{ secrets.ANTHROPIC_API_KEY }}
```

Enable pattern analysis in your `pyproject.toml`:

```toml
[tool.argus.index]
analyze_patterns = true
```

Trigger it manually once with `mode: bootstrap` to build the full codebase map and pattern memory. After that, incremental indexing runs automatically on every push to main.

## Step 5: Open a Pull Request

That's it. Open a PR and Argus will post inline review comments within a few minutes.

## Next Steps

- [Configuration](/argus/docs/configuration) — customize review behavior, thresholds, and ignored paths
- [Architecture](/argus/docs/architecture) — understand how Argus works under the hood
