docs/architecture.md, before:

# Architecture

## Overview

Argus is designed as a pipeline with five bounded contexts: **Context**, **Retrieval**, **Memory**, **Review**, and **LLM**. Each context owns its domain logic, exposes well-defined interfaces, and knows nothing about the others' internals.

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    A[PR Event] --> B[Context Engine]
    B -->|CodebaseMap + Chunks| C[Retrieval]
    B -->|CodebaseMap| M[Memory]
    M -->|Outline + Patterns| D[Review]
    C -->|Ranked ContextItems| D
    D -->|Filtered Review| E[Publisher]

    B -.- B1(Builds and maintains the codebase semantic map)
    C -.- C1(Finds relevant context for the given diff)
    M -.- M1(Manages codebase outline and learned patterns)
    D -.- D1(Generates structured review from context + diff)
    E -.- E1(Posts inline comments on the pull request)

    style A fill:#f9f,stroke:#333
    style M fill:#fcb,stroke:#333
    style E fill:#9f9,stroke:#333
```

---

## Bounded Contexts

### 1. Context Engine

Responsible for building, updating, and versioning the semantic map of a codebase.

```mermaid
classDiagram
    class CodebaseMap {
        +CommitSHA indexed_at
        +upsert(FileEntry)
        +remove(FilePath)
        +get(FilePath) FileEntry
    }
    class FileEntry {
        +FilePath path
        +list~Symbol~ symbols
        +list~str~ imports
        +list~str~ exports
    }
    class DependencyGraph {
        +add_edge(Edge)
        +remove_edges_for(FilePath)
        +dependents(str) list~Edge~
        +dependencies(str) list~Edge~
    }
    class IndexingService {
        +full_index(files) CodebaseMap
        +incremental_update(map, changed) CodebaseMap
    }

    CodebaseMap *-- FileEntry
    CodebaseMap *-- DependencyGraph
    IndexingService ..> CodebaseMap
```

**Core Concepts:**

- **CodebaseMap** — The aggregate root. Represents the complete semantic understanding of a repository at a point in time. Contains file entries and the dependency graph. Versioned by commit SHA. A partial map assembled from selected shards is indistinguishable from a full map with fewer files.
- **FileEntry** — An entity representing a single source file. Holds its AST-derived structure (functions, classes, exports) and its relationships to other files.
- **DependencyGraph** — A value object representing the directed graph of relationships between symbols: imports, calls, extends, implements. Built entirely from AST parsing — no LLM required.
- **ShardedManifest** — DAG index for sharded storage. Maps shard IDs (directory paths) to descriptors and tracks cross-shard dependency edges. Provides `shards_for_files()`, `adjacent_shards()` (BFS), and `dirty_shards()` for selective loading.
- **ShardId** — A `NewType` over `str`, derived deterministically as the POSIX parent directory of a file path.
- **Checkpoint** — A value object that snapshots the CodebaseMap at a specific version.

**Behaviors:**

- **Full index** — Walks the entire repository, parses every file, builds the complete map. Triggered when no prior context exists.
- **Incremental update** — Given a set of changed files (from the PR diff), re-parses only those files and updates their entries and edges in the graph. The rest of the map is preserved.

**Invariants:**

- The dependency graph must always be consistent with the file entries. If a file is removed, all edges involving it are removed.
- Every file entry must have been parsed from source.
- Checkpoints are immutable once created.

---

### 2. Retrieval

Responsible for finding the right context to inform a review. This is the intelligence layer — it decides *what the reviewer needs to know* about the codebase to evaluate a diff.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    D[PR Diff] --> Q[RetrievalQuery]
    Q --> S1[Structural]
    Q --> S2[Lexical]
    Q --> S3[Semantic]
    Q --> S4[Agentic]
    S1 --> R[Ranker]
    S2 --> R
    S3 --> R
    S4 --> R
    R -->|budget + dedup| OUT[RetrievalResult]

    style S1 fill:#bbf,stroke:#333
    style S2 fill:#bbf,stroke:#333
    style S3 fill:#bbf,stroke:#333
    style S4 fill:#fbb,stroke:#333
```

**Core Concepts:**

- **RetrievalQuery** — A value object encoding what we're looking for: changed files, changed symbols, diff text.
- **RetrievalResult** — Ranked, budgeted context items ready for the review generator.
- **RetrievalStrategy** — A protocol. Multiple strategies exist and compose.

**Strategies (layered, not competing):**

1. **Structural retrieval** — Walks the dependency graph. Collects direct dependents, direct dependencies, and co-located files. Deterministic, instant, highest signal.
2. **Lexical retrieval** — BM25 sparse search over AST-chunked code. Handles identifier lookups and pattern matching. Useful when the structural graph doesn't capture a relationship.
3. **Semantic retrieval** — Embedding-based cosine similarity against pre-computed indices. Captures conceptual relationships that structural and lexical strategies miss. Requires an embedding model to be configured (`INPUT_EMBEDDING_MODEL`). Supports Google, OpenAI, and local (sentence-transformers) providers.
4. **Agentic retrieval** — The LLM itself acts as a retriever. It reads the diff, reasons about intent, and issues targeted queries against the other tiers. Most expensive, used adaptively.

**Context Budgeting:**

Retrieval results are subject to a token budget split across tiers. The ranker fills the budget greedily by relevance score until exhausted.

**Invariants:**

- Retrieval must never exceed the configured token budget.
- Structural retrieval always runs. Other tiers are additive.
- Results must be deduplicated — the same code chunk cannot appear twice.

---

### 3. Review

Responsible for generating a structured review from the diff and retrieved context, then deciding how to present it.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    CTX[RetrievalResult] --> REQ[ReviewRequest]
    DIFF[Diff] --> REQ
    REQ --> LLM[LLM Agent]
    LLM --> RO[ReviewOutput]
    RO --> NF[NoiseFilter]
    NF --> REV[Review]
    REV --> PUB[GitHubReviewPublisher]

    style LLM fill:#ff9,stroke:#333
    style PUB fill:#9f9,stroke:#333
```

**Core Concepts:**

- **PRContext** — Enriched PR metadata: title, body, author, labels, CI status (check runs), git health (behind-by, merge commits, days open), prior comments, and optionally related issues/PRs. Collected by `PRContextCollector` in infrastructure and passed through to the review prompt.
- **ReviewRequest** — Bundles the PR diff, retrieved context, and optional PR context.
- **Review** — The aggregate root. Contains a summary and a collection of review comments.
- **ReviewComment** — A single finding with location (file, line range), severity (critical, warning, suggestion, praise), category (bug, security, performance, style, architecture), confidence score, and suggested fix.
- **ReviewSummary** — High-level assessment: what the PR does, risks, strengths, and verdict.

**Behaviors:**

- **Generation** — Diff + PR context + retrieved context assembled into a prompt, sent to LLM, response parsed into structured `ReviewOutput`. PR context enables holistic assessment: CI failures, stale PRs, unaddressed reviewer feedback, and poor descriptions.
- **Noise filtering** — Comments below confidence threshold are dropped. Findings on ignored paths are dropped.
- **Severity calibration** — Explicit severity classification distinguishes "this will break production" from "consider renaming this variable."

**Invariants:**

- A review with zero findings still produces a summary.
- Every comment must reference a specific file and line range from the diff.
- Comments must be actionable with concrete suggestions.

---

### 4. Memory

Responsible for maintaining persistent codebase understanding across reviews. Provides structural outlines and learned coding patterns that enrich the review context.

**Core Concepts:**

- **CodebaseMemory** — The aggregate root. Bundles a codebase outline with learned patterns, versioned for staleness tracking. Tracks `analyzed_at` (the commit SHA where patterns were last analyzed) independently of `indexed_at` to prevent history divergence between index and bootstrap modes.
- **CodebaseOutline** — An AST-derived structural summary of the codebase, scoped to changed files and their blast radius (dependents + dependencies).
- **PatternEntry** — A single learned coding pattern with category (style, naming, architecture, etc.), description, confidence score, and examples.
- **ProfileService** — Orchestrates building and updating memory profiles. Prunes low-confidence patterns and caps total entries.
- **PatternAnalyzer** — A protocol for LLM-based pattern discovery from codebase outlines.

**Review Depth Levels:**

Memory inclusion is controlled by review depth:
- **quick** — No memory context. Fastest, lowest cost.
- **standard** — Codebase outline included. Gives the LLM structural awareness.
- **deep** — Outline + learned patterns. Full codebase understanding with convention enforcement.

**Budget-Aware Prompt Assembly:**

The review generator prioritizes sections within the token budget: diff (always) > PR context > retrieved context > outline > patterns. Lower-priority sections are dropped with logging when they'd exceed the budget.

**Pattern Analysis:**

Patterns can be analyzed in two ways:
- **Bootstrap** (`bootstrap.py`) — Full rebuild: fetches the entire repository tree, parses all source files, renders a complete outline, and runs LLM pattern analysis. Sets `analyzed_at` to the current HEAD SHA.
- **Index** (`sync_index.py`) — Incremental: when `INPUT_ANALYZE_PATTERNS` is `"true"`, after updating the codebase map, pulls existing memory, renders a scoped outline for changed files (used for LLM analysis only), preserves the full existing outline in storage, and runs incremental pattern analysis. Sets `analyzed_at` to the push HEAD SHA.

Bootstrap uses `analyzed_at` (falling back to `indexed_at`) as the diff base for incremental analysis, ensuring no changes are missed even when index mode has advanced `indexed_at`.

**Invariants:**

- Patterns below the minimum confidence threshold (0.3) are pruned.
- Total patterns are capped at 30 entries, sorted by confidence.
- Outline rendering respects a character budget derived from the token budget.

---

### 5. LLM

Responsible for abstracting all interactions with language models behind a uniform interface.

**Core Concepts:**

- **ModelConfig** — A value object holding the pydantic-ai model string (e.g. `anthropic:claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929`), max_tokens, and temperature.
- **TokenBudget** — Available context window split between retrieval and generation with configurable ratios.

**Provider Abstraction:**

All LLM calls go through pydantic-ai. The system supports any provider pydantic-ai supports — Anthropic, OpenAI, Google, Groq, and any OpenAI-compatible endpoint (LM Studio, Ollama, vLLM). The rest of the system never knows which provider is active.

---

## Cross-Cutting Concerns

### Storage

The CodebaseMap is persisted between runs using **sharded DAG storage**. The domain defines `CodebaseMapRepository` and `ShardedMapRepository` protocols; infrastructure provides `ShardedArtifactStore` (primary) and `FileArtifactStore` (legacy fallback).

**Sharded format** (on the `argus-data` branch):

```
argus-data branch:
  manifest.json              # DAG index: shard descriptors + cross-shard edges
  shard_<content_hash>.json  # One per leaf directory
  <hash>_memory.json         # Patterns + outline (unchanged)
  <hash>_embeddings.json     # Pre-computed embedding vectors per shard
```

- **manifest.json** — Maps shard IDs (directory paths) to descriptors (file count, content hash, blob name) and tracks cross-shard dependency edges.
- **Shard files** — Each contains the serialized `FileEntry` objects and internal edges for files in one directory.
- **Shard ID** — Derived deterministically from `PurePosixPath(file_path).parent`.

**Selective loading:**

- **Review** pulls only the manifest, computes needed shards (changed files + 1-hop dependency neighbors via BFS on cross-shard edges), and downloads only those shard blobs. Optionally pulls embedding indices for semantic retrieval when `INPUT_EMBEDDING_MODEL` is configured.
- **Index** pulls the manifest, determines dirty shards from changed files, downloads only those, updates, and re-shards. Optionally pulls memory blobs and runs incremental pattern analysis when `INPUT_ANALYZE_PATTERNS` is enabled. Optionally rebuilds embedding indices for changed shards when `INPUT_EMBEDDING_MODEL` is configured.
- **Bootstrap** builds the full map, splits into shards, and saves everything. Optionally builds embedding indices for all shards when `INPUT_EMBEDDING_MODEL` is configured.

`ShardedArtifactStore` also satisfies `CodebaseMapRepository` via `load()` / `save()` methods, which delegate to `load_or_migrate()` (tries sharded, falls back to legacy flat format) and `save_full()` (always writes sharded). Legacy flat artifacts are cleaned up on first sharded save.

Codebase memory (outlines + patterns) is persisted separately via `FileMemoryStore` with file locking for concurrent access. The `analyzed_at` field on `CodebaseMemory` is serialized/deserialized alongside patterns and outline, enabling index mode to track where it last analyzed without conflating with `indexed_at`.

### Parsing

AST parsing is an infrastructure concern. The domain defines a `SourceParser` protocol; infrastructure implements it with tree-sitter grammars for 11 languages.

### Configuration

All configurable values flow in from the action inputs at the boundary. The domain does not read environment variables. Configuration is assembled at the interfaces layer and injected as value objects.

---

## Layer Dependency Flow

```mermaid
graph TD
    INT[interfaces] --> APP[application]
    APP --> DOM[domain]
    INF[infrastructure] --> DOM
    DOM --> SH[shared]
    APP --> SH
    INF --> SH
    INT --> INF
    INT --> DOM
    INT --> SH

    style SH fill:#e8e8e8,stroke:#333
    style DOM fill:#bbf,stroke:#333
    style APP fill:#bfb,stroke:#333
    style INF fill:#fbf,stroke:#333
    style INT fill:#ff9,stroke:#333
```

- **shared** is the foundation. Every layer may import from it. Zero internal imports.
- **domain** imports only from **shared**. Defines protocols that infrastructure satisfies.
- **application** imports **domain** to orchestrate services and access entities.
- **infrastructure** imports **domain** to implement protocols.
- **interfaces** imports from all layers. Constructs implementations, injects them into use cases, runs the pipeline. This is the only place that knows about all layers simultaneously.

---

## Full Pipeline Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant GH as GitHub
    participant ACT as action.py
    participant CTX as Context Engine
    participant RET as Retrieval
    participant MEM as Memory
    participant LLM as LLM Agent
    participant PUB as Publisher

    GH->>ACT: PR webhook event
    ACT->>GH: Fetch diff + file contents
    ACT->>GH: Collect PR context (metadata, CI, comments, git health)
    ACT->>GH: Pull manifest.json from argus-data
    ACT->>ACT: Compute needed shards (changed files + 1-hop neighbors)
    ACT->>GH: Pull only needed shard blobs + memory + embeddings
    ACT->>CTX: Parse changed files, build/update partial CodebaseMap
    CTX-->>ACT: CodebaseMap + Chunks
    ACT->>RET: Retrieve context (structural → lexical → semantic → agentic)
    RET-->>ACT: Ranked ContextItems
    ACT->>MEM: Render outline + load/build patterns (based on review depth)
    MEM-->>ACT: Outline text + Patterns text
    ACT->>LLM: Generate review (diff + PR context + context + outline + patterns)
    LLM-->>ACT: Structured ReviewOutput
    ACT->>ACT: Noise filter (confidence + ignored paths)
    ACT->>PUB: Post inline comments (diff-position mapped)
    PUB->>GH: PR review comments
```

---

## Module Structure

```
src/argus/
├── shared/                          # Foundation kernel — types, exceptions, constants
├── domain/                          # Pure domain logic — depends only on shared/
│   ├── context/                     # Context Engine bounded context
│   ├── retrieval/                   # Retrieval bounded context
│   ├── memory/                      # Memory bounded context (outline + patterns)
│   ├── review/                      # Review bounded context
│   └── llm/                         # LLM bounded context
├── application/                     # Use cases — orchestrates domain services
├── infrastructure/                  # Concrete implementations of domain protocols
│   ├── parsing/                     # Tree-sitter AST parser + code chunker
│   ├── retrieval/                   # Structural, lexical, semantic, agentic strategies
│   ├── memory/                      # Outline renderer + LLM pattern analyzer
│   ├── llm_providers/              # pydantic-ai Agent factory
│   ├── storage/                     # Sharded codebase map + memory persistence
│   └── github/                      # GitHub API client + review publisher
└── interfaces/                      # Entry points — action, bootstrap, config
```

---

## Design Principles

- **The domain has no dependencies.** It defines interfaces; infrastructure implements them. The domain never imports from infrastructure, never calls an API, never reads a file.
- **Value objects are immutable.** Once created, they don't change. New state means new objects.
- **Side effects live at the boundary.** LLM calls, GitHub API calls, artifact uploads — all happen in infrastructure, orchestrated by application services.
- **Retrieval is composable.** Strategies are independent and layered. Adding a new retrieval tier means implementing the strategy interface and registering it. Nothing else changes.
- **Failure is explicit.** Typed exceptions with structured context flow upward. The application layer catches at use-case boundaries and decides whether to retry, degrade gracefully, or abort.

Commit message:

docs: update architecture, website for TOML config
Update architecture.md references from INPUT_* env vars to TOML
config keys. Update website getting-started, configuration, and
QuickSetup component to reflect new config approach.

docs/architecture.md, after:

# Architecture

## Overview

Argus is designed as a pipeline with five bounded contexts: **Context**, **Retrieval**, **Memory**, **Review**, and **LLM**. Each context owns its domain logic, exposes well-defined interfaces, and knows nothing about the others' internals.

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    A[PR Event] --> B[Context Engine]
    B -->|CodebaseMap + Chunks| C[Retrieval]
    B -->|CodebaseMap| M[Memory]
    M -->|Outline + Patterns| D[Review]
    C -->|Ranked ContextItems| D
    D -->|Filtered Review| E[Publisher]

    B -.- B1(Builds and maintains the codebase semantic map)
    C -.- C1(Finds relevant context for the given diff)
    M -.- M1(Manages codebase outline and learned patterns)
    D -.- D1(Generates structured review from context + diff)
    E -.- E1(Posts inline comments on the pull request)

    style A fill:#f9f,stroke:#333
    style M fill:#fcb,stroke:#333
    style E fill:#9f9,stroke:#333
```

---

## Bounded Contexts

### 1. Context Engine

Responsible for building, updating, and versioning the semantic map of a codebase.

```mermaid
classDiagram
    class CodebaseMap {
        +CommitSHA indexed_at
        +upsert(FileEntry)
        +remove(FilePath)
        +get(FilePath) FileEntry
    }
    class FileEntry {
        +FilePath path
        +list~Symbol~ symbols
        +list~str~ imports
        +list~str~ exports
    }
    class DependencyGraph {
        +add_edge(Edge)
        +remove_edges_for(FilePath)
        +dependents(str) list~Edge~
        +dependencies(str) list~Edge~
    }
    class IndexingService {
        +full_index(files) CodebaseMap
        +incremental_update(map, changed) CodebaseMap
    }

    CodebaseMap *-- FileEntry
    CodebaseMap *-- DependencyGraph
    IndexingService ..> CodebaseMap
```

**Core Concepts:**

- **CodebaseMap** — The aggregate root. Represents the complete semantic understanding of a repository at a point in time. Contains file entries and the dependency graph. Versioned by commit SHA. A partial map assembled from selected shards is indistinguishable from a full map with fewer files.
- **FileEntry** — An entity representing a single source file. Holds its AST-derived structure (functions, classes, exports) and its relationships to other files.
- **DependencyGraph** — A value object representing the directed graph of relationships between symbols: imports, calls, extends, implements. Built entirely from AST parsing — no LLM required.
- **ShardedManifest** — DAG index for sharded storage. Maps shard IDs (directory paths) to descriptors and tracks cross-shard dependency edges. Provides `shards_for_files()`, `adjacent_shards()` (BFS), and `dirty_shards()` for selective loading.
- **ShardId** — A `NewType` over `str`, derived deterministically as the POSIX parent directory of a file path.
- **Checkpoint** — A value object that snapshots the CodebaseMap at a specific version.

**Behaviors:**

- **Full index** — Walks the entire repository, parses every file, builds the complete map. Triggered when no prior context exists.
- **Incremental update** — Given a set of changed files (from the PR diff), re-parses only those files and updates their entries and edges in the graph. The rest of the map is preserved.

**Invariants:**

- The dependency graph must always be consistent with the file entries. If a file is removed, all edges involving it are removed.
- Every file entry must have been parsed from source.
- Checkpoints are immutable once created.

---

### 2. Retrieval

Responsible for finding the right context to inform a review. This is the intelligence layer — it decides *what the reviewer needs to know* about the codebase to evaluate a diff.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    D[PR Diff] --> Q[RetrievalQuery]
    Q --> S1[Structural]
    Q --> S2[Lexical]
    Q --> S3[Semantic]
    Q --> S4[Agentic]
    S1 --> R[Ranker]
    S2 --> R
    S3 --> R
    S4 --> R
    R -->|budget + dedup| OUT[RetrievalResult]

    style S1 fill:#bbf,stroke:#333
    style S2 fill:#bbf,stroke:#333
    style S3 fill:#bbf,stroke:#333
    style S4 fill:#fbb,stroke:#333
```

**Core Concepts:**

- **RetrievalQuery** — A value object encoding what we're looking for: changed files, changed symbols, diff text.
- **RetrievalResult** — Ranked, budgeted context items ready for the review generator.
- **RetrievalStrategy** — A protocol. Multiple strategies exist and compose.

**Strategies (layered, not competing):**

1. **Structural retrieval** — Walks the dependency graph. Collects direct dependents, direct dependencies, and co-located files. Deterministic, instant, highest signal.
2. **Lexical retrieval** — BM25 sparse search over AST-chunked code. Handles identifier lookups and pattern matching. Useful when the structural graph doesn't capture a relationship.
3. **Semantic retrieval** — Embedding-based cosine similarity against pre-computed indices. Captures conceptual relationships that structural and lexical strategies miss. Requires an embedding model to be configured (`embedding_model`). Supports Google, OpenAI, and local (sentence-transformers) providers.
4. **Agentic retrieval** — The LLM itself acts as a retriever. It reads the diff, reasons about intent, and issues targeted queries against the other tiers. Most expensive, used adaptively.

**Context Budgeting:**

Retrieval results are subject to a token budget split across tiers. The ranker fills the budget greedily by relevance score until exhausted.

**Invariants:**

- Retrieval must never exceed the configured token budget.
- Structural retrieval always runs. Other tiers are additive.
- Results must be deduplicated — the same code chunk cannot appear twice.

---

### 3. Review

Responsible for generating a structured review from the diff and retrieved context, then deciding how to present it.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    CTX[RetrievalResult] --> REQ[ReviewRequest]
    DIFF[Diff] --> REQ
    REQ --> LLM[LLM Agent]
    LLM --> RO[ReviewOutput]
    RO --> NF[NoiseFilter]
    NF --> REV[Review]
    REV --> PUB[GitHubReviewPublisher]

    style LLM fill:#ff9,stroke:#333
    style PUB fill:#9f9,stroke:#333
```

**Core Concepts:**

- **PRContext** — Enriched PR metadata: title, body, author, labels, CI status (check runs), git health (behind-by, merge commits, days open), prior comments, and optionally related issues/PRs. Collected by `PRContextCollector` in infrastructure and passed through to the review prompt.
- **ReviewRequest** — Bundles the PR diff, retrieved context, and optional PR context.
- **Review** — The aggregate root. Contains a summary and a collection of review comments.
- **ReviewComment** — A single finding with location (file, line range), severity (critical, warning, suggestion, praise), category (bug, security, performance, style, architecture), confidence score, and suggested fix.
- **ReviewSummary** — High-level assessment: what the PR does, risks, strengths, and verdict.

**Behaviors:**

- **Generation** — Diff + PR context + retrieved context assembled into a prompt, sent to LLM, response parsed into structured `ReviewOutput`. PR context enables holistic assessment: CI failures, stale PRs, unaddressed reviewer feedback, and poor descriptions.
- **Noise filtering** — Comments below confidence threshold are dropped. Findings on ignored paths are dropped.
- **Severity calibration** — Explicit severity classification distinguishes "this will break production" from "consider renaming this variable."

**Invariants:**

- A review with zero findings still produces a summary.
- Every comment must reference a specific file and line range from the diff.
- Comments must be actionable with concrete suggestions.

---

### 4. Memory

Responsible for maintaining persistent codebase understanding across reviews. Provides structural outlines and learned coding patterns that enrich the review context.

**Core Concepts:**

- **CodebaseMemory** — The aggregate root. Bundles a codebase outline with learned patterns, versioned for staleness tracking. Tracks `analyzed_at` (the commit SHA where patterns were last analyzed) independently of `indexed_at` to prevent history divergence between index and bootstrap modes.
- **CodebaseOutline** — An AST-derived structural summary of the codebase, scoped to changed files and their blast radius (dependents + dependencies).
- **PatternEntry** — A single learned coding pattern with category (style, naming, architecture, etc.), description, confidence score, and examples.
- **ProfileService** — Orchestrates building and updating memory profiles. Prunes low-confidence patterns and caps total entries.
- **PatternAnalyzer** — A protocol for LLM-based pattern discovery from codebase outlines.

**Review Depth Levels:**

Memory inclusion is controlled by review depth:
- **quick** — No memory context. Fastest, lowest cost.
- **standard** — Codebase outline included. Gives the LLM structural awareness.
- **deep** — Outline + learned patterns. Full codebase understanding with convention enforcement.

**Budget-Aware Prompt Assembly:**

The review generator prioritizes sections within the token budget: diff (always) > PR context > retrieved context > outline > patterns. Lower-priority sections are dropped with logging when they'd exceed the budget.

**Pattern Analysis:**

Patterns can be analyzed in two ways:
- **Bootstrap** (`bootstrap.py`) — Full rebuild: fetches the entire repository tree, parses all source files, renders a complete outline, and runs LLM pattern analysis. Sets `analyzed_at` to the current HEAD SHA.
- **Index** (`sync_index.py`) — Incremental: when `analyze_patterns = true` in config, after updating the codebase map, pulls existing memory, renders a scoped outline for changed files (used for LLM analysis only), preserves the full existing outline in storage, and runs incremental pattern analysis. Sets `analyzed_at` to the push HEAD SHA.

Bootstrap uses `analyzed_at` (falling back to `indexed_at`) as the diff base for incremental analysis, ensuring no changes are missed even when index mode has advanced `indexed_at`.

**Invariants:**

- Patterns below the minimum confidence threshold (0.3) are pruned.
- Total patterns are capped at 30 entries, sorted by confidence.
- Outline rendering respects a character budget derived from the token budget.

---

### 5. LLM

Responsible for abstracting all interactions with language models behind a uniform interface.

**Core Concepts:**

- **ModelConfig** — A value object holding the pydantic-ai model string (e.g. `anthropic:claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929`), max_tokens, and temperature.
- **TokenBudget** — Available context window split between retrieval and generation with configurable ratios.

**Provider Abstraction:**

All LLM calls go through pydantic-ai. The system supports any provider pydantic-ai supports — Anthropic, OpenAI, Google, Groq, and any OpenAI-compatible endpoint (LM Studio, Ollama, vLLM). The rest of the system never knows which provider is active.

---

## Cross-Cutting Concerns

### Storage

The CodebaseMap is persisted between runs using **sharded DAG storage**. The domain defines `CodebaseMapRepository` and `ShardedMapRepository` protocols; infrastructure provides `ShardedArtifactStore` (primary) and `FileArtifactStore` (legacy fallback).

**Sharded format** (on the `argus-data` branch):

```
argus-data branch:
  manifest.json              # DAG index: shard descriptors + cross-shard edges
  shard_<content_hash>.json  # One per leaf directory
  <hash>_memory.json         # Patterns + outline (unchanged)
  <hash>_embeddings.json     # Pre-computed embedding vectors per shard
```

- **manifest.json** — Maps shard IDs (directory paths) to descriptors (file count, content hash, blob name) and tracks cross-shard dependency edges.
- **Shard files** — Each contains the serialized `FileEntry` objects and internal edges for files in one directory.
- **Shard ID** — Derived deterministically from `PurePosixPath(file_path).parent`.

**Selective loading:**

- **Review** pulls only the manifest, computes needed shards (changed files + 1-hop dependency neighbors via BFS on cross-shard edges), and downloads only those shard blobs. Optionally pulls embedding indices for semantic retrieval when `embedding_model` is configured.
- **Index** pulls the manifest, determines dirty shards from changed files, downloads only those, updates, and re-shards. Optionally pulls memory blobs and runs incremental pattern analysis when `analyze_patterns` is enabled. Optionally rebuilds embedding indices for changed shards when `embedding_model` is configured.
- **Bootstrap** builds the full map, splits into shards, and saves everything. Optionally builds embedding indices for all shards when `embedding_model` is configured.

`ShardedArtifactStore` also satisfies `CodebaseMapRepository` via `load()` / `save()` methods, which delegate to `load_or_migrate()` (tries sharded, falls back to legacy flat format) and `save_full()` (always writes sharded). Legacy flat artifacts are cleaned up on first sharded save.

Codebase memory (outlines + patterns) is persisted separately via `FileMemoryStore` with file locking for concurrent access. The `analyzed_at` field on `CodebaseMemory` is serialized/deserialized alongside patterns and outline, enabling index mode to track where it last analyzed without conflating with `indexed_at`.

### Parsing

AST parsing is an infrastructure concern. The domain defines a `SourceParser` protocol; infrastructure implements it with tree-sitter grammars for 11 languages.

### Configuration

All configurable values live in `[tool.argus]` in `pyproject.toml`. The domain does not read environment variables or TOML files. Configuration is loaded at the interfaces layer (`toml_config.py`) and injected as value objects. Only secrets and GitHub runtime vars remain as environment variables.

---

## Layer Dependency Flow

```mermaid
graph TD
    INT[interfaces] --> APP[application]
    APP --> DOM[domain]
    INF[infrastructure] --> DOM
    DOM --> SH[shared]
    APP --> SH
    INF --> SH
    INT --> INF
    INT --> DOM
    INT --> SH

    style SH fill:#e8e8e8,stroke:#333
    style DOM fill:#bbf,stroke:#333
    style APP fill:#bfb,stroke:#333
    style INF fill:#fbf,stroke:#333
    style INT fill:#ff9,stroke:#333
```

- **shared** is the foundation. Every layer may import from it. Zero internal imports.
- **domain** imports only from **shared**. Defines protocols that infrastructure satisfies.
- **application** imports **domain** to orchestrate services and access entities.
- **infrastructure** imports **domain** to implement protocols.
- **interfaces** imports from all layers. Constructs implementations, injects them into use cases, runs the pipeline. This is the only place that knows about all layers simultaneously.

---

## Full Pipeline Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant GH as GitHub
    participant ACT as action.py
    participant CTX as Context Engine
    participant RET as Retrieval
    participant MEM as Memory
    participant LLM as LLM Agent
    participant PUB as Publisher

    GH->>ACT: PR webhook event
    ACT->>GH: Fetch diff + file contents
    ACT->>GH: Collect PR context (metadata, CI, comments, git health)
    ACT->>GH: Pull manifest.json from argus-data
    ACT->>ACT: Compute needed shards (changed files + 1-hop neighbors)
    ACT->>GH: Pull only needed shard blobs + memory + embeddings
    ACT->>CTX: Parse changed files, build/update partial CodebaseMap
    CTX-->>ACT: CodebaseMap + Chunks
    ACT->>RET: Retrieve context (structural → lexical → semantic → agentic)
    RET-->>ACT: Ranked ContextItems
    ACT->>MEM: Render outline + load/build patterns (based on review depth)
    MEM-->>ACT: Outline text + Patterns text
    ACT->>LLM: Generate review (diff + PR context + context + outline + patterns)
    LLM-->>ACT: Structured ReviewOutput
    ACT->>ACT: Noise filter (confidence + ignored paths)
    ACT->>PUB: Post inline comments (diff-position mapped)
    PUB->>GH: PR review comments
```

---

## Module Structure

```
src/argus/
├── shared/                          # Foundation kernel — types, exceptions, constants
├── domain/                          # Pure domain logic — depends only on shared/
│   ├── context/                     # Context Engine bounded context
│   ├── retrieval/                   # Retrieval bounded context
│   ├── memory/                      # Memory bounded context (outline + patterns)
│   ├── review/                      # Review bounded context
│   └── llm/                         # LLM bounded context
├── application/                     # Use cases — orchestrates domain services
├── infrastructure/                  # Concrete implementations of domain protocols
│   ├── parsing/                     # Tree-sitter AST parser + code chunker
│   ├── retrieval/                   # Structural, lexical, semantic, agentic strategies
│   ├── memory/                      # Outline renderer + LLM pattern analyzer
│   ├── llm_providers/              # pydantic-ai Agent factory
│   ├── storage/                     # Sharded codebase map + memory persistence
│   └── github/                      # GitHub API client + review publisher
└── interfaces/                      # Entry points — action, bootstrap, config
```

---

## Design Principles

- **The domain has no dependencies.** It defines interfaces; infrastructure implements them. The domain never imports from infrastructure, never calls an API, never reads a file.
- **Value objects are immutable.** Once created, they don't change. New state means new objects.
- **Side effects live at the boundary.** LLM calls, GitHub API calls, artifact uploads — all happen in infrastructure, orchestrated by application services.
- **Retrieval is composable.** Strategies are independent and layered. Adding a new retrieval tier means implementing the strategy interface and registering it. Nothing else changes.
- **Failure is explicit.** Typed exceptions with structured context flow upward. The application layer catches at use-case boundaries and decides whether to retry, degrade gracefully, or abort.
